# bitcoin/bitcoin [#26114](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/26114)
_All comments in `[]` are my own_

My understanding of bootstrapping connections on a node with an empty `addrman` is vague
and incomplete, but is as follows:

- First, try to populate from DNS seeds.
    - Make a request for the DNS records at the seed address and save all (many?) of the addresses
      that are returned.

- If that fails, or if the `-nodnsseed` flag is set, we add a set of hardcoded 'fixed
  seeds' to our addrman, then attempt to open full block relay connections to the 'fixed
  seeds'.

#26114 proposes modifying the 'fixed seed' bootstrapping process to using fixed seeds as
addr-fetch connections first, and setting a 2 minute delay before we add them to our
addrman and consider adding them as a full outbound connection if our connection slots are
not already filled.

The motivations are twofold: reducing IBD burden on the fixed seeds, and reducing trust /
creating a more diverse network topology.

Not directly expressed, but it seems intuitive that new nodes making full outbound
connections to the fixed seeds makes the network tend towards a shape that is more like
hubs-and-spokes than a bazaar.

## Questions
- How often do real nodes make connections to the fixed seeds?
    - Part of the motivation for this PR, was that in [#25678](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/25678)
      `-onlynet=onion` nodes stopped attempting to contact the DNS seeds, since this would
      require making IP connections, true for all alternative networks.
- Is the intuition true that we improve a node's chances of getting a diverse set of peers
  by making addrfetch connections?
    - Maybe this motivation doesn't matter, it's the immense IBD burden placed on fixed
      seeds that is the problem.
