# [#31495](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/31495) wallet: Utilize IsMine() and CanProvide() in migration to cover edge cases
_All code comments in `[]` are my own._

## Background

`CWallet` provides `CWallet::IsMine(const CScript& script)` to check whether
whether a given script belongs to a wallet. It does so by first checking whether
or not an entry for the `CScript` exists in a `CWallet`'s `m_cached_spks` map
[^1],
which maps every `CScript` managed by wallet to it's respective ScriptPubKeyMan
(SPKM) for all descriptor SPKM's, and for any legacy SPKM's, `CWallet::IsMine`
relies on each respective legacy SPKM's `LegacyScriptPubKeyMan::IsMine()` to
inform us whether or not the script is "mine". [^2]

```cpp
//! Cache of descriptor ScriptPubKeys used for IsMine. Maps ScriptPubKey to set of spkms
std::unordered_map<CScript, std::vector<ScriptPubKeyMan*>, SaltedSipHasher> m_cached_spks;
```

```cpp
isminetype CWallet::IsMine(const CScript& script) const
{
    AssertLockHeld(cs_wallet);

    // Search the cache so that IsMine is called only on the relevant SPKMs instead of on everything in m_spk_managers
    // [ m_cached_spks is a map of scripts to vectors of spkm's, so we find the
    //   entry (if any) for this script... ]
    const auto& it = m_cached_spks.find(script);
    if (it != m_cached_spks.end()) {
        isminetype res = ISMINE_NO; // [ ISMINE_NO == 0 ]
        for (const auto& spkm : it->second) {
            // [ This works since ISMINE_NO is 0. ]
            res = std::max(res, spkm->IsMine(script));
        }
        
        // [ Notice that this Assume statement enforces the fact that the real
        //   *IsMine* magic happens above this if block , when we search the 
        //   `m_cached_spks` map, everything inside of this if statement is
        //   double-checking that the m_cached_spks map never has a bad entry.
        // 
        //   Might be nice to refactor this logic into a function to avoid the 
        //   loop above any time we are not performing Assume checks. ]
        Assume(res == ISMINE_SPENDABLE); // [ ISMINE_SPENDABLE == 1 << 1 ]
        return res;
    }

    // Legacy wallet
    // [ If we have a LegacySPKM in the wallet, then we *actually* rely on
    //   IsMine() to determine whether or not the wallet owns a given script. ]
    if (LegacyScriptPubKeyMan* spkm = GetLegacyScriptPubKeyMan()) {
        return spkm->IsMine(script);
    }

    return ISMINE_NO;
}
```

This functionality seems in part to be a carryover from legacy wallets, where
sophisticated `IsMine()` logic is required to determine which scripts belong to
a given wallet, a much better description of this behavior than I could provide
came in the [release notes](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/release-notes/release-notes-0.21.0.md#ismine-semantics)
of Bitcoin Core 0.21.0: 

    ### `IsMine` Semantics

    IsMine refers to the function used to determine whether a script belongs to
    the wallet. This is used to determine whether an output belongs to the
    wallet. IsMine in Legacy Wallets returns true if the wallet would be able to
    sign an input that spends an output with that script. Since keys can be
    involved in a variety of different scripts, this definition for IsMine can
    lead to many unexpected scripts being considered part of the wallet.

    With Descriptor Wallets, descriptors explicitly specify the set of scripts
    that are owned by the wallet. Since descriptors are deterministic and easily
    enumerable, users will know exactly what scripts the wallet will consider to
    belong to it. Additionally the implementation of IsMine in Descriptor
    Wallets is far simpler than for Legacy Wallets. Notably, in Legacy Wallets,
    IsMine allowed for users to take one type of address (e.g. P2PKH), mutate it
    into another address type (e.g. P2WPKH), and the wallet would still detect
    outputs sending to the new address type even without that address being
    requested from the wallet. Descriptor Wallets do not allow for this and will
    only watch for the addresses that were explicitly requested from the wallet.

    These changes to IsMine will make it easier to reason about what scripts the
    wallet will actually be watching for in outputs. However for the vast
    majority of users, this change is largely transparent and will not have
    noticeable effect.

(https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/master/doc/release-notes/release-notes-0.21.0.md#ismine-semantics)

This is an alternative approach to
[#30328](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30328), my really vague gues

## Problem

My understanding is that as part of the removal of the Legacy Wallet, `CWallet`
would no longer talk to any `LegacyScriptPubKeyMan`s, and in order to reproduce
the behavior `CWallet::IsMine()` has today when it encounters an output 'owned'
by a `LegacyScriptPubKeyMan`, during wallet migration any legacy SPKM's that
were encountered would be migrated to an equivalent descriptor wallet. As part
of that process, we would have to add all possible outputs which a legacy
wallet/SPKM *might* return `ISMINE_SPENDABLE` for to the wallet db and they
would be present in the `m_cached_spks` that we check for `IsMine`ness.

The author of this PR attempted another approach earlier in
[#30328](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/30328) which involved writing a
function which would, given a legacy SPKM, create a descriptor SPKM
which describes all possible outputs which the legacy wallet would have declared
`IsMine()`, the PR author and some reviewers encountered some edge cases which
were not covered in the first attempt at this approach, namely, outputs which
the migrated descriptor wallet would not have returned `ISMINE_SPENDABLE` for,
but which the legacy wallet would have, after some further offline discussion,
it became apparent to the author that this problem would be too difficult to
solve in this manner and that it would be exceedingly difficult to create and
validate a function which was the 'inverse' of `LegacyScriptPubKeyMan::IsMine()`
in this way.

## Solution



## Annotated code

<details>

<summary>

Placeholder summary

</summary>

```
```

</details>

[^1]: This has been the behavior since
    [#26008](https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/26008), I understand this
    to be possible because a core assumption of the Descriptor wallet system is
    that the wallet tracks *exactly* the scripts which it has generated, and no
    more. `m_cached_spks` appears to only be added to by
    `CWallet::CacheNewScriptPubKeys()` which is invoked by
    `CWallet::TopUpCallback()`, I believe this happens when loading a wallet
    from disk.

[^2]: There are actually a variety of possible `isminetype` results that can be
    returned by `*::IsMine()`, for example, scripts which we have imported as
    watch only descriptors, but do not have the secret data required to spend,
    more details here: https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/blob/b042c4f0538c6f9cdf8efbcef552796851e38a85/src/wallet/types.h#L19-L40
