# [#29817(https://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin/pull/29817) kernel: De-globalize
fReindex

_All code comments in `[]` are my own._

## Background

### libbitcoinkernel
This PR is part of the libbitcoinkernel project, which replaces the earlier
`libbitcoinconsensus` effort to decouple consensus code from other parts of the
bitcoin core project. Among other differences, `libbitcoinkernel` is stateful.

Briefly, the goals of `libbitcoinkernel`:
- Enable alternative bitcoin implementations with a reduced risk of chainsplitting.
- Make it easier to reason about what code is likely to be consensus critical

### `-reindex`

According to [this][so-reindex] stack overflow post, the `-reindex` flag to
bitcoind does the following:

- Wipes the chainstate (UTXO set)
- Wipes the block index (db with info about which block is where on disk)
- Rebuilds the block index by going over all blk*.dat files and finding things that
  look 
- Rebuilds the chainstate (redoing all validation for blocks) based on the
  blocks now in the index.

## Problem

At present, tracking whether or not a reindex is in progress (when a
node has been started with `-reindex`) is handled by `fReindex`

`fReindex` is global variable in the `node` namespace. (e.g. `node::fReindex`)

Uses: 

- `bool LoadingBlocks()`: This functions pops up all over `net_processing.cpp`,
  and if `LoadingBlocks()` is true `bool ChainstateManager::IsInitialBlockDownload()`
  (used by consensus critical code) is true.


```cpp
// [ i.e. Are we in IBD or reindex?
bool LoadingBlocks() const { return m_importing || fReindex; }
```

- In `AppInitMain` Step 7 ("load block chain"), if after `LoadChainstate` is
  called, `VerifyLoadedChainstate` does *not* return
  `node::ChainstateLoadStatus::SUCCESS`, initialization cannot proceed, and the
  user is mysteriously given the opportunity to restart with `fReindex = true`.
  Comments make it clear that this option is presented through a gui dialogue
  box, but what about bitcoind cli users? Something to do with how
  `interface_ui` and `noui.cpp` which I don't fully understand...

- In `AppInitMain` Step 8 ("start indexers") The indexers `TxIndex`
  (`-txindex`), `BlockFilterIndex`, `CoinStatsIndex` (`-coinstatsindex`),  all
  share an ancestor `BaseIndex` which accepts an argument `bool f_wipe` which I
  must make an assumpion about the meaning of. If we initialize the indexers, do
  so with `f_wipe = fReindex`.

- In `AppInitMain` Step 10 ("data directory maintenance"), if the node is
  pruning, we `chainstate->PruneAndFlush` before continuing init. Skip step 10
  if `fReindex == true`.

```cpp
if (chainman.m_blockman.IsPruneMode()) {
    if (!fReindex) {
        LOCK(cs_main);
        for (Chainstate* chainstate : chainman.GetAll()) {
            uiInterface.InitMessage(_("Pruning blockstore…").translated);
            chainstate->PruneAndFlush();
        }
    }
}
```

- In `AppInitMain` Step 11 ("import blocks") there is a check for low disk space
  that just results in a warning message about insufficient disk space, skip if
  `fReindex == true`.
```cpp
// [ If -reindex or -reindex-chainstate on startup ]
if (!fReindex && !fReindexChainState && chain_active_height <= 1) {
    // [ defined in kernel/chainparams.h as the assumed blockchain size in GB
    //   m_assumed_blockchain_size = 600; (April 2024)
    //   Multiply by 1024^3 to convert from GB to bytes ]
    uint64_t assumed_chain_bytes{chainparams.AssumedBlockchainSize() * 1024 * 1024 * 1024};

    // [ Name seems to be a bit of a misnomer since we don't really care about
    //   the additional number of bytes needed here, just the total number
    //   needed. additional_bytes_needed = min(assumed_chain_bytes,
    //   prune_target) ]
    uint64_t additional_bytes_needed{
        chainman.m_blockman.IsPruneMode() ?
            std::min(chainman.m_blockman.GetPruneTarget(), assumed_chain_bytes) :
            assumed_chain_bytes};

    if (!CheckDiskSpace(args.GetBlocksDirPath(), additional_bytes_needed)) {
        InitWarning(strprintf(_(
                "Disk space for %s may not accommodate the block files. " \
                "Approximately %u GB of data will be stored in this directory."
            ),
            fs::quoted(fs::PathToString(args.GetBlocksDirPath())),
            chainparams.AssumedBlockchainSize()
        ));
    }
}
```

- Most importantly, in `void ImportBlocks`, if `fReindex == true`, we run
  `LoadExternalBlockFile` (which does the heavy lifting) on each block file,.

- bool ChainstateManager::LoadBlockIndex()

## Solution

<details>

<summary>

Placeholder summary

</summary>

```
```

</details>

[so-reindex]: https://bitcoin.stackexchange.com/questions/60709/when-should-i-use-reindex-chainstate-and-when-reindex
